                        Spacecraft Slew Example
                (Tutorial 3 in the SD/FAST User's Manual)

Introduction
------------

This example demonstrates the use of SD/FAST to analyze a spacecraft
performing a camera slewing maneuver.  A scanner is attached to the 
camera for positioning, and follows a sinusoidal prescribed motion.  
This example is discussed in Tutorial 3 of the SD/FAST User's Manual.

This spacecraft example demonstrates the use of SD/FAST with position and 
rate feedback control with a deadband, and actuators (thrusters) which 
exhibit `memory' in the sense that they must be on for a minimum amount
of time.  In addition, a flexible boom is represented with a simple
lumped-mass model of flexibility in two dimensions.  A simple application
of SD/FAST's design capability is demonstrated by performing the same
analysis with the attachment point for the scanner in two different
places.

Three analyses are performed.  The first is very similar to the one
in the old SD/FAST manual.  The scanner is locked, and the camera
follows a slew command.  In the second analysis, the camera is 
held still while the scanner follows a sinusoidal prescribed motion.
The camera pointing error is monitored to observe the effect of the
scanner.  The third analysis duplicates the second, except that the
scanner is attached to a different point on the camera.

Because there are states being integrated beyond those representing
the spacecraft hinge positions and velocities, the SD/FAST Simplified
Analysis Routines cannot be used in this example.  Use of the underlying
General Analysis Routines (namely SDFINTEG instead of SDFMOTION) is 
demonstrated here instead.

Running the Example
-------------------

This example is composed of three files:

   slew.doc -- this documentation file
   slew.sd  -- the SD/FAST Input File
   slew.f   -- user-written FORTRAN code driving the analyses

To generate, compile and link this example into an executable `slew',
execute the following commands (on Unix workstations):

   1. sdfast -ge slew.sd  

      The -ge flag says `generate everything', so you get:
           slew_info slew_dyn.f slew_sar.f sdlib.f
      For this example, we won't need the Simplified Analysis Routines
      in the slew_sar file, however.

   2. f77 -o slew slew.f slew_dyn.f sdlib.f 

      Compile, link and put the executable in `slew'.
      The -u and -C flags can also be very helpful
      for debugging.  If you will be changing slew.f (a good idea for
      familiarizing yourself with the SD/FAST capabilities) you will want 
      to avoid recompilation of the other files.  That can be done using 
      the -c flag:
           f77 -c slew_dyn.f sdlib.f
      and then linking with the appropriate object files:
           f77 -o slew slew.f slew_dyn.o sdlib.o

The Example Code
----------------

In conjunction with the SD/FAST User's Manual Appendix B, the comments
in the slew.f example code should make it possible to understand the
code by reading through it.  This example demonstrates use of the
following SD/FAST-generated subroutines:

        SDINIT     -- initialize to start and after changing system parameters
        SDANG2ST   -- convert state from Euler angles to quaternions
        SDINDX     -- index into state using joint,axis pairs
        SDORIENT   -- obtain the current orientation of a body
        SDDC2ANG   -- convert a direction cosine to Euler angles
        SDFINTEG   -- a fixed-step Runge Kutta integrator with error estimation
        SDTRANS    -- transform a vector from one body frame to another
        SDITJ      -- change the inboard-to-joint vector for a joint
        SDPRINTERR -- report any misuse of the SD/FAST-generated routines
        SDSTATE    -- specify the current time and system state
        SDDERIV    -- compute state derivatives
        SDVERR     -- evaluate velocity constraint errors
        SDPERR     -- evaluate position constraint errors
        SDPRESPOS  -- prescribe the value of a joint coordinate
        SDPRESVEL  -- prescribe the value of a joint velocity
        SDPRESACC  -- prescribe the value of a joint acceleration
        SDANGVEL   -- compute the angular velocity of a body
        SDHINGET   -- apply a joint torque
        SDBODYT    -- apply a torque to a body
